[docs][workflows] Add environment variables reference (#47727)
expo/expo: docs/pages/eas/workflows/environment.mdx

| Source                                                                     | Description                                                                                                                            |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Job `env`](/eas/workflows/syntax/#jobsjob_idenv)                          | Variables you set on the job with the `env` key. These are plain text and defined directly in your workflow file.                      |
| [**eas.json** build profile `env`](/build/eas-json/#environment-variables) | For [`build`](/eas/workflows/pre-packaged-jobs/#build) jobs, the `env` from the profile selected by `params.profile` in **eas.json**.  |
| [EAS environment variables](/eas/environment-variables/)                   | Variable names and values stored on EAS for the job's [environment](#the-job-environment) (`production`, `preview`, or `development`). |

> On top of these, the worker sets a number of [built-in variables](#built-in-environment-variables) such as `EAS_BUILD_ID` and `CI`. Avoid naming your own variables with the `EAS_` prefix so they aren't shadowed by the built-in ones.

Reviewer: **[suggestion]** Passive voice where active works (`style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`).

```suggestion
On top of these, the worker sets a number of [built-in variables](#built-in-environment-variables) such as `EAS_BUILD_ID` and `CI`. Avoid naming your own variables with the `EAS_` prefix so the built-in ones don't shadow them.
```

## The job environment

Which EAS environment variables a job can read depends on its [environment](/eas/workflows/syntax/#jobsjob_idenvironment): `production` (the default), `preview`, or `development`. Only variables assigned to that environment are exposed to the job.

Each job resolves its environment differently:

- [`build`](/eas/workflows/pre-packaged-jobs/#build) jobs infer it from the build profile's `environment` in **eas.json**.
- [`submit`](/eas/workflows/pre-packaged-jobs/#submit) jobs inherit it from the submitted build.

> - [`maestro`](/eas/workflows/pre-packaged-jobs/#maestro) and [`maestro-cloud`](/eas/workflows/pre-packaged-jobs/#maestro-cloud) jobs default to `preview`.

Reviewer: **[suggestion]** These per-job environment defaults conflict with two existing pages (accuracy, cross-page consistency). [Using environment variables in EAS Workflows](https://docs.expo.dev/eas/environment-variables/usage/#using-environment-variables-in-eas-workflows) says update, submit, fingerprint, Maestro, and custom jobs all default to `production` when `environment` is omitted, and [`jobs.<job_id>.environment`](https://docs.expo.dev/eas/workflows/syntax/#jobsjob_idenvironment) documents `production` as the default with no per-job exceptions. The `preview` default for `maestro` and `maestro-cloud` is confirmed by the syntax blocks in [Pre-packaged jobs](https://docs.expo.dev/eas/workflows/pre-packaged-jobs/#maestro) (`# optional - defaults to preview`), so this page looks correct and those pages look stale. If `submit` inheriting the environment from the submitted build is also current behavior, consider updating those two sections in this PR so all three pages agree.

- **`run` commands** are interpolated on the worker, where `env` reflects the full runtime environment: EAS environment variables, the job's `env`, and the [built-in variables](#built-in-environment-variables).

Because of this, read built-in variables like `EAS_BUILD_ID` inside a `run` step rather than in a job's `params`. Inside a `run` step, `${{ env.EAS_BUILD_ID }}` and `$EAS_BUILD_ID` are equivalent.

> **info** Values interpolated from EAS environment variables of type secret or sensitive are redacted in workflow logs.

## Context variables

Environment variables are not the only thing a job can interpolate. The same `${{ ... }}` syntax exposes several context objects that describe the workflow run. The `env` context covered above is one of them. The others are documented below. For the interpolation syntax and the available [context functions](/eas/workflows/syntax/#context-functions) such as `toJSON`, `fromJSON`, and `success()`, see [Syntax](/eas/workflows/syntax/#interpolation).

> **info** To see the full contents of any context at runtime, print it with `toJSON`. For example, `run: echo '${{ toJSON(github) }}'`.

### `github`

> Fields from the GitHub event that triggered the workflow. When a run is started with `eas workflow:run`, `event_name` is `workflow_dispatch` and the other fields are empty.

Reviewer: **[suggestion]** Passive voice where active works (`style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`). The reader is the one starting the run.

```suggestion
Fields from the GitHub event that triggered the workflow. When you start a run with `eas workflow:run`, `event_name` is `workflow_dispatch` and the other fields are empty.
```

  commit_message,     // Only for push and schedule events
  label,              // Label name, for pull_request_labeled events
  repository,         // e.g. expo/expo
  repository_owner,   // e.g. expo
  event {             // Full GitHub webhook payload
    action,
    head_commit { message, id },   // Only for push and schedule events
    pull_request {
      number,
      title,
      body,
      state,          // 'open' or 'closed'
      draft,
      merged,
      html_url,
      user { login },
      labels,         // Array of { name }
      head { ref, sha },   // Source branch
      base { ref, sha },   // Target branch
      created_at,
      updated_at,
      merged_at,
      // ... and other fields from the GitHub Pull Request webhook payload
    },
    inputs,           // workflow_dispatch inputs
    schedule,         // Cron expression, for scheduled runs
    number,
  }
}
```

The `event` object contains the full [GitHub webhook payload](https://docs.github.com/en/webhooks/webhook-events-and-payloads). For a detailed field reference and examples, see [`github`](/eas/workflows/syntax/#github) in the Syntax guide.

### `inputs`

> A record of the inputs provided when the workflow was started manually with [`workflow_dispatch`](/eas/workflows/syntax/#onworkflow_dispatchinputs). Empty when the workflow was triggered another way.

Reviewer: **[suggestion]** Past tense in both sentences; the style guide asks for present tense, and the first clause reads better in active voice (`style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`).

```suggestion
A record of the inputs provided when you start the workflow manually with [`workflow_dispatch`](/eas/workflows/syntax/#onworkflow_dispatchinputs). Empty when the workflow is triggered another way.
```

    params:
      message: |
        Workflow run completed: ${{ workflow.name }}
        View details: ${{ workflow.url }}
```

### `app_store_connect`

Information about the App Store Connect entities associated with the run. This context is present only for workflows triggered by an [App Store Connect event](/eas/workflows/syntax/#onapp_store_connect).

```js
app_store_connect {
  app { id },
  build_upload {
    id,
    state,             // 'awaiting_upload', 'processing', 'failed', or 'complete'
    cf_bundle_version,
    build { id },
  },
  app_version { id, state },
  external_beta { id, state },
  beta_feedback {
    id,
    type,              // 'crash' or 'screenshot'
    url,
  },
}
```

```yaml
on:
  app_store_connect:
    build_upload:
      states:
        - complete

jobs:
  notify:
    type: slack
    params:
      webhook_url: ${{ env.SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL }}
      message: |
        Upload complete for app: ${{ app_store_connect.app.id }}
        Upload state: ${{ app_store_connect.build_upload.state }}
```

For the event domains that populate each field and full examples, see [`app_store_connect`](/eas/workflows/syntax/#app_store_connect) in the Syntax guide.

> ## Built-in environment variables

Reviewer: what is the difference between the following env variables and these: https://docs.expo.dev/eas/environment-variables/usage/. Are they specific service related?

Should we consolidate them in one page based on their service?

> The worker sets the following variables on every job that runs on a VM. These are read at runtime, so reference them from within a `run` step.

Reviewer: **[nit]** "VM" is not on the list of abbreviations that skip expansion, and this is its first mention on the page (`style-guide.md#word-usage`).

```suggestion
The worker sets the following variables on every job that runs on a virtual machine (VM). These are read at runtime, so reference them from within a `run` step.
```

| Variable                    | Example value                              | Description                                                             |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `EAS_BUILD_PLATFORM`        | `android`                                  | The platform being built, either `android` or `ios`.                    |
| `EAS_BUILD_PROFILE`         | `production`                               | The name of the build profile from **eas.json**.                        |
| `EAS_BUILD_GIT_COMMIT_HASH` | `88f28ab5fa39108ade970de2d0d1adeedf0ece76` | The hash of the Git commit the job is running against.                  |
| `EAS_BUILD_USERNAME`        | `meowlivia`                                | The username of the user who initiated the run. Empty for robot actors. |

Workers also expose standard toolchain variables such as `HOME`, `PATH`, `LANG`, `ANDROID_HOME`, `ANDROID_SDK_ROOT`, and `JAVA_HOME`. Their exact values depend on the worker [image](/eas/workflows/syntax/#jobsjob_idimage) and are subject to change.

> > **warning** Variables prefixed with `__` (for example, `__WORKFLOW_JOB_ID`) are internal implementation details. They can change or be removed at any time, so don't depend on them.

Reviewer: - There is no `WORKFLOW_JOB_ID` env variable documented above. Is this something visible in the dashboard?

## Setting environment variables in a job

To define your own variables, use the [`env` key](/eas/workflows/syntax/#jobsjob_idenv) on a job. Values can reference other context properties.

```yaml
jobs:
  my_job:
    env:
      APP_VARIANT: staging
      COMMIT: ${{ github.sha }}
    steps:
      - run: echo "Building $APP_VARIANT at $COMMIT"
```

### Share a value with later steps in the same job

> To compute a value in one step and read it in later steps of the same job, use the `set-env` command, which is available on the worker's `PATH`. It's the environment-variable counterpart to [`set-output`](/eas/workflows/syntax/#set-output): `set-output` exposes a named job output, while `set-env` exposes an environment variable to the job's subsequent steps.

Reviewer: **[suggestion]** The first sentence is 28 words (`style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`), and `set-env` has its own section in the syntax reference ([`set-env`](https://docs.expo.dev/eas/workflows/syntax/#set-env)) that this sentence doesn't link, even though it links `set-output` in the same breath (`style-guide.md#formatting-and-structure`).

```suggestion
Use the [`set-env`](/eas/workflows/syntax/#set-env) command to compute a value in one step and read it in later steps of the same job. The command is available on the worker's `PATH`. It's the environment-variable counterpart to [`set-output`](/eas/workflows/syntax/#set-output): `set-output` exposes a named job output, while `set-env` exposes an environment variable to the job's subsequent steps.
```
